# Byzantine fault

A **Byzantine fault** is a state in a distributed system when one of the components broadcasts unreliable (i.e., contradicting) information in a sense that different observers receive different messages from the faulty component. If the system is consensus-based, the **Byzantine failure** is the failure of a system due to Byzantine fault. Note that the consensus requirement is necessary for Byzantine failure to occur, i.e., Byzantine failure is specifically the failure to obtain a consensus among the nodes in a system because they receive conflicting information. The problem of achieving a consensus in a Byzantine fault setting is sometimes called **interactive consistency problem**. A distributed system is said to be **Byzantine fault tolerant (BFT)** if it is resistant to Byzantine failure, i.e., if Byzantine fault occuring in such a system does not lead to Byzantine failure. To achieve BFT is the same as to solve interactive consistency.

The problem can be formalized in several different ways, depending on constraints, such as topology of the system, synchronicity, etc. One of the simples forms is as follows. Let the system consist of *n* nodes, of which *m* are unreliable. The system's connectivity graph is complete, i.e., every two components share a dedicated communication channel. The system is said to Byzantine fault tolerant if, whenever some component *C* broadcasts a value,
* If *C* is *honest* (i.e., reliable, non-compromised), and it broadcasts the value *x*, all the honest nodes agree on the same value *x*;
* If *C* is not honest, all the honest components still agree on *some* value *y*.

That is, in any case, all the reliable components reach a consensus. Unreliable nodes may or may not collude with each other. Byzantine faults are the most difficult category of faults in distributed systems in the sense that they assume the worst case scenario. Note that the problem can be viewed from the viewpoint of node reliability as well as from the viewpoint of communication channel reliability. That is, an internally reliable (honest) node can be observed as dishonest if the communication channels are unreliable/compromised and the content of the node's messages is changed in transit.